Add D1 vs Hyperdrive (#17465)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/platform/storage-options.mdx

:::

## D1 vs Hyperdrive

> D1 is a standalone, serverless database that provides a SQL API to store and access your relational data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
D1 is a standalone, serverless database that provides a SQL API, using SQLite's SQL dialect, to store and access your relational data. 
```

> Hyperdrive is a service that improves the performance of your existing, regional PostgreSQL databases, optimizing them for global data access from Workers.

Reviewer 2: It also allows you to connect to them in the first place

Reviewer 3: Is this not already implied by the fact that Hyperdrive can improve the performance of the existing database? Happy to add it in if you think it should be explicit though.

Reviewer: @Oxyjun Let's make it explicit. When framed as performance improvement, Hyperdrive could be seen as optional

If you are building a new project on Workers or are considering migrating your data, use D1.

If you are building a Workers project with an existing PostgreSQL database, use Hyperdrive.

> D1 does not need to be used with Hyperdrive because it does not have slow connection setups which would benefit from Hyperdrive's connection pooling. D1 data can also be cached within Workers using the [Cache API](/workers/runtime-apis/cache/). 

Reviewer 2: Should it be more explicit that you cannot use both together?

Reviewer 3: @thomasgauvin if it's a case where a user can't use D1 with Hyperdrive at all, I think we should state it here?

Reviewer 3: Adding text to explicitly state you cannot use D1 with Hyperdrive.

:::

## D1 vs Hyperdrive

D1 is a standalone, serverless database that provides a SQL API, using SQLite's SQL semantics, to store and access your relational data.

> Hyperdrive is a service that improves the performance of your existing, regional PostgreSQL databases, optimizing them for global data access from Workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hyperdrive is a service that lets you connect your existing, regional PostgreSQL databases and improves database performance by optimizing them for global data access from Workers.
```

> Hyperdrive is a service that lets you connect your existing, regional PostgreSQL databases and improves database performance by optimizing them for global data access from Workers.

Author: ```suggestion
Hyperdrive is a service that lets you connect to your existing, regional PostgreSQL databases and improves database performance by optimizing them for global, scalable data access from Workers.
```

- If you are building a new project on Workers or are considering migrating your data, use D1.
- If you are building a Workers project with an existing PostgreSQL database, use Hyperdrive.

> - If your working data size exceeds 10 GB (the maximum size for a D1 database), consider splitting the database to multiple, smaller D1 databases.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> :::caution

Author: ```suggestion
:::note
```

> - If your database exceeds 10 GB (the maximum size for a D1 database), consider splitting the database to multiple, smaller D1 databases, or use your existing PostgreSQL database with Hyperdrive.

Reviewer: Combine this with the first bullet

```suggestion
- If your working data size exceeds 10 GB (the maximum size for a D1 database), consider splitting the database to multiple, smaller D1 databases.
```
